---
title: Speech by Minister Josephine Teo at the 4th ASEAN Digital Ministers’ Meeting
permalink: /media-centre/speeches/speech-by-minister-josephine-teo-at-4th-asean-digital-ministers-meeting/
date: 2024-02-01
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: markdown
---
<p>Fellow Digital Ministers</p>
<p>Excellencies</p>
<p>Distinguished guests</p>
<p>Ladies and gentlemen</p>
<p><strong>Introduction</strong>
</p>
<p>1. Thank you all for making time to be in Singapore for the 4th ASEAN
Digital Ministers’ Meeting. We are honoured to be your host.</p>
<p>2. My longer-serving colleagues will know that when Singapore last hosted
this meeting 11 years ago, it was called the “Telecommunications and Information
Technology Ministers Meeting”, or “TELMIN” for short. The name change to
ADGMIN took place just four years ago. It reflected how much our landscape
was changing and the unmistakable march of digital technologies. As a bloc,
we decided to be responsive and we have made commendable progress.</p>
<p>3. This year, we are pleased to welcome Timor-Leste as an observer for
the first time at the ADGSOM, ADGMIN, and other Related Meetings. Let me
also extend a warm welcome to all our Dialogue and Development Partners.</p>
<p><u>Although diverse, ADGMIN has found ways to support member states’ digital developments in practical and meaningful ways.</u>
</p>
<p>4. There is no doubt that ADGMIN’s relevance has grown over the years.
Digital products and services are now all-pervasive, we encounter them
at every turn. More recently, generative AI has captured widespread interest.
As much as we welcome the opportunities of each technological advancement,
we also recognise the risks they bring.</p>
<p>5. The current wave of digital technologies sweeping across the world
has the potential to sow distrust and deepen fault lines in society. Misinformation
and disinformation can be supercharged with deepfakes generated by AI.
All governments will be challenged to ensure that digital developments
are built upon a strong foundation of trust.</p>
<p>6. With around 650 million people, ASEAN is one of the most diverse regions
in the world. But that has not stopped us from finding ways to better support
each other in our digital journeys.</p>
<p>7. For example, ASEAN is the first and remains the only regional group
that has fully adopted the “Norms of Responsible State Behaviour in Cyberspace”
put forward by the United Nations. Although the 11 rules are non-binding,
the fact that we have worked out implementation guidelines shows our seriousness
and commitment.</p>
<p>8. We also introduced practical ways to support cross-border data flows.
Building on the ASEAN Data Management Framework, a set of Model Contractual
Clauses can be used by our businesses to meet the legal requirements for
data protection in all Member States, however different our regimes may
be.</p>
<p>9. These efforts recognise that the digital domain is borderless. Many
products and services our businesses and citizens access are created and
managed elsewhere. Whether it is to enable them to gain more from the opportunities,
or to better protect them from the harms they encounter online, our governments
and officials must work together, with each other as well as with our partners.10.
This is why ASEAN is discussing a Digital Economy Framework Agreement and
the theme for this year’s ADGMIN is “Building an Inclusive and Trusted
Digital Ecosystem”.</p>
<p>11. I would like to thank all the previous chairs of ADGMIN and TELMIN
for contributing to the forward momentum that has been steadily built up.
Let me now offer some suggestions on how our foundations of progress can
help us break new ground.</p>
<p><u>Forging a more integrated and connected digital ASEAN</u>
</p>
<p>12. First, Singapore believes a more integrated and connected digital
ASEAN will benefit all of us. This is especially so if we can identify
areas of potential to unlock.</p>
<p>13. Our cooperation on data is a good example.</p>
<p>14. It is significant that at ADGMIN 2024, we are launching the EU-ASEAN
Joint Guide on Model Contractual Clauses for International Data Transfers.
ASEAN is the EU’s third largest trading partner, while the EU is the second
largest investor in ASEAN, having invested US$26.5 billion in our economy
	in 2021<sup>[1]</sup>. I am sure that figure has grown since. Singapore alone has
more than 14,000 European businesses that use us as their regional headquarters,
logistics and distribution centres for the region.</p>
<p>15. This joint Guide will therefore be useful for businesses that operate
in both EU and ASEAN, to manage their cross-border data flows. SMEs and
Micro-SMEs in particular, will be far less hampered by the lack of resources
to engage in lengthy contractual negotiations on cross-border data flows.</p>
<p>16. Second, we believe ASEAN can also contribute to advancing AI Governance.
All of us have an interest to support AI adoption to help grow our industries
and enterprises. Equally, we want to protect our societies from the harms
of irresponsible or unethical uses of AI.</p>
<p>17. For the first time, Singapore has collaborated with fellow Member
States on an ASEAN Guide on AI Governance and Ethics. This is an important
signal to the global community of AI developers, creators and policy-makers
to keep our needs and expectations in mind, as you design products and
services or develop rules that our people are bound to be impacted by.
At the same time, by putting forward a common set of guidelines, we help
you meet our needs in a more inter-operable and unified manner.</p>
<p>18. We thank each Member State for your strong support and contributions
to this Guide, and to our other projects under the 4th ADGMIN.</p>
<p><u>Architecting a trusted and inclusive digital ecosystem, together</u>
</p>
<p>19. In architecting a digital ASEAN, we must ensure that the voices of
small states, small companies and individuals continue to be heard. As
governments, we have the responsibility to ensure that digital does not
divide – instead, all members of society can reap the benefits of digitalisation,
without fear or barriers to access.</p>
<p>20. Just last month, the Singapore Parliament moved a Motion on building
a safe and inclusive online space for Singaporeans. Among our elderly population
which many consider to be less tech-savvy, 82% are already comfortable
using the Internet to search for information. But we believe we can do
much more to help them, as well as anyone who wishes to acquire the skills
needed to benefit from technology. This is why, during the debate, my Ministry
	announced the introduction of a framework<sup>[2]</sup>, which identifies baseline
digital skills for Singaporeans to carry out daily tasks online.</p>
<p>21. In this regard, I am also glad to learn about the project by Laos
on Assessing the Relationship between ICT Infrastructure and Digital Skills
and the Inflow of Foreign Investment to the ASEAN ICT Sector, as well as
Indonesia’s project on improving logistics for the Digital Economy Supply
Chain in rural areas.</p>
<p>22. Let us all continue to look at digital inclusion from multiple angles.
The diverse perspectives in this room are assets that will expand our horizon
and broaden our understanding of what it requires.</p>
<p>23. Last but certainly not least, we must seriously address challenges
that undermine the people’s trust in our digital systems. Specifically,
we have to do much more to combat scams carried out with the help of digital
technologies.</p>
<p>24. According to the Global Anti-Scam Alliance, US$1.4 trillion was lost
to scams worldwide between August 2022 to August 2023. In Asia alone, more
	than 60% of people encounter at least one scam each week<sup>[3]</sup>. Scams are
now a transnational problem, with criminals and cybercrime syndicates using
digital tools to operate at scale and at speed, across borders.</p>
<p>25. In this regard, we welcome Thailand’s timely proposal on the Operational
Framework to establish the ASEAN Working Group on Anti-Online Scams. It
will help us share policies, best practices, and strategic intelligence
to prevent scams at source.</p>
<p>26. Singapore is already in close discussions with our Thai colleagues
on how the ASEAN Regional Computer Emergency Response Teams, or CERT for
short, can support the work of the proposed Working Group on Anti-Online
Scams. We hope that this and other mechanisms for cooperation will collectively
raise our ability to protect our citizens from scams and strengthen their
trust in digital systems.</p>
<p><u>Conclusion</u>
</p>
<p>27. Let me conclude by reaffirming the growing relevance of ASEAN and
ADGMIN. Our digital economies are growing and our digital societies will
continue to expand. Our agencies are using more digital tools to deliver
services to the public, and increasingly need to uphold public trust in
the safety and resilience of digital systems.</p>
<p>28. We can build on our foundations and progress to forge a trusted and
more inclusive digital future. I look forward to an enriching day of discussions,
where we can deliver concrete outcomes for the benefit of the 650 million
people in this region.</p>
<p>29. Thank you very much for being here. I look forward to our exchanges
later.</p>
<p><a href="/files/Speeches 2024/Transcript_of_Speech_by_Minister_Josephine_Teo_at_the_4th_ASEAN_Digital_Ministers__Meeting__1_Feb_.pdf" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">PDF version of the speech</a>
</p>
<hr>
<p><sup>[1]</sup> Source: ASEAN Key Figures 2022</p>
<p><sup>[2]</sup> Digital Skills for Life Framework</p>
<p><sup>[3]</sup> Source: 2023 Asia Scam Report published by the Global Anti-Scam Alliance
(GASA) and Gogolook, Nov 2023.</p>