---
title: COS 2025
permalink: /what-we-do/committee-of-supply/2025/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
third_nav_title: Committee of Supply
---
<h2>A Thriving Digital Future for All</h2>
<p>Following the launch of our refreshed Smart Nation 2.0 vision, the Ministry
of Digital Development and Information (MDDI) has outlined our priorities
at the Committee of Supply 2025 debates. These include our plans to strengthen
online safety, cybersecurity and digital resilience; foster growth for
businesses and workers; and empower our communities with essential digital
skills.</p>
<h3>Strengthening Trust</h3>
<p>In addition to recently introduced measures to protect online users, we
will establish the <strong><em>Online Safety Commission</em></strong> to
support victims of online harms in seeking timely relief.</p>
<p></p>
<p>We are working to ensure the resilience, security and future-readiness
of our digital infrastructure and services. Through the upcoming<strong><em> Digital Infrastructure Act (DIA)</em></strong>,
we will establish baseline requirements to strengthen the resilience and
security of major cloud service providers and data centres.</p>
<p></p>
<h3>Growing Opportunities</h3>
<p>We are empowering our workers and enterprises for an AI-driven digital
future. Enterprises can leverage resources like the new GenAI Playbook
for Enterprises that guides businesses in deploying GenAI solutions. They
can also tap on the new GenAI Navigator that recommends GenAI solutions
to suit specific business needs.</p>
<p></p>
<h3>Building Communities</h3>
<p>Our vision is a thriving digital future for all. To ensure everyone reaps
the benefits of technology, we are refreshing the Digital Service Standards
to guide government agencies in designing inclusive digital services that
are accessible to all.</p>
<p>In addition, IMDA will enrich its Digital Skills for Life framework with
GenAI content, while NLB will roll out experiential showcases for members
of public to experience emerging technologies.</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>